Add context to the README (#7)
deepset-ai/haystack-experimental: README.md

[![Project release on PyPi](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/pypi_release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/pypi_release.yml)
[![Hatch project](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A5%9A-Hatch-4051b5.svg)](https://github.com/pypa/hatch)
[![Checked with mypy](https://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](https://mypy-lang.org/)

# Haystack experimental package

The `haystack-experimental` package provides Haystack users with access to experimental features without immediately
committing to their official release. The main goal is to gather user feedback and iterate on new features quickly.

## Installation

For simplicity, every release of `haystack-experimental` will ship all the available experiments at that time. To
install the latest experimental features, run:

```sh
$ pip install -U haystack-experimental
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The latest version of the experimental package is only tested against the latest version of Haystack. Compatibility

> > with older version of Haystack is not guaranteed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> with older versions of Haystack is not guaranteed.
```

[![PyPI - Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/haystack-experimental.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/haystack-experimental)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/haystack-experimental.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/haystack-experimental)
[![Tests](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![Project release on PyPi](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/pypi_release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/pypi_release.yml)
[![Hatch project](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A5%9A-Hatch-4051b5.svg)](https://github.com/pypa/hatch)
[![Checked with mypy](https://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](https://mypy-lang.org/)

> # Haystack experimental package

Reviewer 2: Could we mention anywhere that there is no special installation needed?

The `haystack-experimental` package provides Haystack users with access to experimental features without immediately
committing to their official release. The main goal is to gather user feedback and iterate on new features quickly.
For simplicity, every release of `haystack-experimental` will ship all the available experiments at that time.

## Experiments lifecycle

Any experimental feature will be removed from `haystack-experimental` after a period of 3 months. After this time,
the experiment will be either:

> - Merged into Haystack core and published in the next release

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Merged into [Haystack core](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack) and published in the next release
```

> - Released as a Core Integration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Released as a [Core Integration](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-core-integrations)
```

[![PyPI - Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/haystack-experimental.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/haystack-experimental)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/haystack-experimental.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/haystack-experimental)
[![Tests](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![Project release on PyPi](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/pypi_release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-experimental/actions/workflows/pypi_release.yml)
[![Hatch project](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A5%9A-Hatch-4051b5.svg)](https://github.com/pypa/hatch)
[![Checked with mypy](https://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](https://mypy-lang.org/)

# Haystack experimental package

The `haystack-experimental` package provides Haystack users with access to experimental features without immediately
committing to their official release. The main goal is to gather user feedback and iterate on new features quickly.

> For simplicity, every release of `haystack-experimental` will ship all the available experiments at that time.

Reviewer: Shall we also leave a note here about the versioning scheme (CalVer)? Also, I think it would be good to add a sentence that this package is meant to be used with the latest release of the core package (or at least that we don't provide any guarantees about their compatibility with core versions that are older than the current version of the experimental package).

Author: Absolutely, let me investigate how painful will be CalVer compared to other solutions with the same goal and let's make it official.

Author: I think we should ditch CalVer, it adds a lot of complexity and I start doubting the benefits of it.

## Experiments lifecycle

Any experimental feature will be removed from `haystack-experimental` after a period of 3 months. After this time,
the experiment will be either:

> - Incorporated in Haystack and released with the next minor,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Merged into Haystack core and published in the next release
```

> - Released as a Core Integration,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Released as a Core Integration
```

> - Dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dropped
```

## Usage

Experimental new features can be imported like any other Haystack integration package:

```python
from haystack.dataclasses import ChatMessage
from haystack_experimental.components.generators import FoobarGenerator

c = FoobarGenerator()
c.run([ChatMessage.from_user("What's an experiment? Be brief.")])
```

> Experiments can also override existing Haystack features. For example, users opt-in for an experimental type of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiments can also override existing Haystack features. For example, users can opt into an experimental type of
```

`Pipeline` by just changing the usual import:

```python
# from haystack import Pipeline
from haystack_experimental import Pipeline

pipe = Pipeline()
# ...
pipe.run(...)
```

## Implementation

> Experiments should try to replicate the namespace of the core package. For example, a new generator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiments should replicate the namespace of the core package. For example, a new generator:
```

# in haystack_experimental/components/generators/foobar.py

from haystack import component

@component
class FoobarGenerator:
    ...

```

When the experiment overrides an existing feature, the new symbol should be created at the same path in the experimental
package. This new symbol will override the original in `haystack-ai`: for classes, with a subclass and for bare
functions, with a wrapper. For example:

```python
# in haystack_experiment/src/haystack_experiment/core/pipeline/pipeline.py

from haystack.core.pipeline import Pipeline as HaystackPipeline

class Pipeline(HaystackPipeline):
	# Any new experimental method that doesn't exist in the original class
	def run_async(self, inputs) -> Dict[str, Dict[str, Any]]:
		...

	# Existing methods with breaking changes to their signature, like adding a new mandatory param
    def to_dict(new_param: str) -> Dict[str, Any]:
        # do something with the new parameter
        print(new_param)
        # call the original method
        return super().to_dict()

```
## Documentation

Documentation for `haystack-experimental` can be found [here](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/reference/haystack-experimental-api)

## Contributing

> Direct contributions to `haystack-experimental` are not expected, but Haystack maintainers might ask you to move here
> a pull request that you originally opened on https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Direct contributions to `haystack-experimental` are not expected, but Haystack maintainers might ask contributors to move pull requests that target the [core repository](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack) to this repository.
```
